well today we are trying out the bottom
end of the Chevy lineup and that is the
2013 Chevrolet Spark that we're testing
you know what small cars have come a
long way and I think this spark proves
that even in the last few years since we
last drove the previous generation Chevy
Aveo which was really dreadful overall
just no style outside no style inside
and really no comfort or technology
features that today's buyers especially
young buyers really really want so here
we're happy to say the Chevy spark that
we're driving which really about 15,000
for the 2lt model that we're sampling is
a fantastic value because you just got
to look around this thing to see all the
features that you wouldn't have got a
few years ago things like power mirrors
power windows power locks then even more
unexpected things like a leather
steering wheel you can't even get that
in a lot of toyota products that cost
35,000 so surprised to see that in here
you've got things like heated seats for
the front passenger so you've got things
like you've got both OnStar included for
six months and of course you can
subscribe after that you've got the
seven-inch screen here in the dash for
the Chevy might touch system or MyLink
excuse me and it connects to your iPhone
through a USB port that's included and
you can sync up some of the apps things
like Pandora and then there's a
navigation app on there and all that
kind of stuff that you certainly would
not get at a $15,000 price point
a few years ago so we're happy to see
all of that of course safety is not
forgotten we've got ten standard airbags
you know really more than enough room in
the front area here the back seats do
okay but really cargo area I think is
where this vehicle limits itself if
you're going to
have to use the backseats you're gonna
be stuck with a very small cargo area
behind that second row you lift up the
hatch and you've got about a one foot
floor there to store groceries or
whatever it is you might be throwing
back there in addition you're not gonna
find a lot of you know power the power
trains have an advanced quite as far as
the interior and the exterior styling
has in the last few years this uses a
1.25 liter 4-cylinder nothing really
fancy particularly about it and that's
why you end up with 84 horsepower and 83
pound-feet of torque so we're glad to
have on board the 5-speed manual because
the optional four-speed automatic is
probably dreadful just can't imagine how
painfully slow that thing would feel at
least with the 5-speed you can rev out
the lower gears and get up to you know
get up to highway speeds at a decent
clip and then once you're there really
we're quite happy with how it's moving
along what one thing you do notice when
you when you go to this level of the
automotive spectrum compared to even an
average family sedan these days is the
wind noise inside they really do kind of
start to strip out the sound deadening
material so we hear a lot more wind
noise we hear a lot more tire noise and
we really hear a lot more engine noise
so it's a bit of a mixed bag do we
really like the exterior styling no
we're probably a little too old actually
for there I mean it looks fine but it's
you know the buggy headlights are
probably a bit much and then the wheels
actually with this tall as this vehicle
as the wheels are 15 inches but they say
they seem really small looking on this
vehicle and we're fine with 15 inch
wheels but they just look kind of give
you a little chuckle when you look at
them because they they look smaller than
I think they really are on this vehicle
but no fault of Chevrolet's you know
really overall at this price point we
are blown away
by the value that you're getting here
you know a comparable vehicle like the
Fiat 500 as the style that we're a
little more on board with so we would
probably give it the nod in that
category and it has just a slight more
power on paper although I think driving
him back to back you wouldn't notice
much of a difference but this absolutely
blows it away I think an included
content for that 15,000 it's a very
strong package overall for those looking
for a frugal starter car you know it
comes with the warranty it has the Chevy
five year 100,000 mile powertrain
warranty so you're covered for a good
long time and powertrain department and
then although it's not the most frugal
vehicle out there you know we are
getting some of these 40 mile per gallon
ratings on some cars that are even
larger and have more horsepower but but
this does offer 38 miles per gallon on
the highway and 32 in the city so it's
it's a pretty frugal vehicle overall and
I think for a lot of people like I said
it's going to be all the vehicle they
need and probably a couple of surprises
that they didn't even expect at this
price point because I know we didn't
expect to see them you need to check out
the Chevy spark because for 15,000 I'm
having a hard time coming up with
something that's going to be able to
match the entire value package Chevrolet
has put together here
you
well sometimes you can't get too spoiled
by driving $100,000 cars all the time
with twin-turbo v8 and massive
horsepower and torque ratings so once in
a while we need to remind ourselves
what's at the other end of the spectrum
and that's why we're driving the 2013
Chevrolet Spark because this has a 1
point 2 5 liter 4-cylinder with 84
horsepower that's right 84 horsepower so
we have adopted a version of she's
Josef's famous pledge and we will pass
no more forever